the old woman; "for she hath set her heart
on thee." So my brother patiently suffered her to dye his eyebrows and
pluck out his mustachios, after which the maiden returned to her
mistress and told her. Quoth she "Remaineth now only one other thing to
be done; thou must shave his beard and make him a smooth o'
face."[FN#646] So the maiden went back and told him what her mistress
had bidden her do; and my brother (the blockhead!) said to her, "How
shall I do what will disgrace me before the folk?" But the old woman
said, "She would do on this wise only that thou mayst be as a beardless
youth and that no hair be left on thy face to scratch and prick her
delicate cheeks; for indeed she is passionately in love with thee. So
be patient and thou shalt attain thine object." My brother was patient
and did her bidding and let shave off his beard and, when he was
brought back to the lady, lo! he appeared dyed red as to his eyebrows,
plucked of both mustachios, shorn of his beard, rouged on both cheeks.
At first she was affrighted at him; then she made mockery of him and,
laughing till she fell upon her back, said, "O my lord, thou hast
indeed won my heart by thy good nature!" Then she conjured him, by her
life, to stand up and dance, and he arose, and capered about, and there
was not a cushion in the house but she threw it at his head, and in
like manner did all her women who also kept pelting him with oranges
and lemons and citrons till he fell down senseless from the cuffing on
the nape of the neck, the pillowing and the fruit pelting. "Now thou
hast attained thy wish," said the old woman when he came round; "there
are no more blows in store for thee and there remaineth but one little
thing to do. It is her wont, when she is in her cups, to let no one
have her until she put off her dress and trousers and remain stark
naked.[FN#647] Then she will bid thee doff thy clothes and run; and she
will run before thee as if she were flying from thee; and do thou
follow her from place to place till thy prickle stands at fullest
point, when she will yield to thee;"[FN#648] adding, "Strip off thy
clothes at once." So he rose, well nigh lost in ecstasy and, doffing
his raiment, showed himself mother naked.â€”And Shahrazad perceived the
dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.